---
layout: post
title: "Python 科学计算"       # Title of the post
subtitle:
date:       2016-11-19 12:00:00
author:     "随机漫步的傻瓜"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - 其他
---

# Python 科学计算

- np.array() 构造数组时，需要list类型做参数，尤其是多维数组的时候要注意
- ndarray.ndim :Number of array dimensions
- np.arange(1, 9, 2) # start, end (exclusive), step
- np.linspace(0, 1, 6) # start, end, num-points
- 维度用tuple类型表示
- c = a[::2].copy() # force a copy,否则直接赋值，改变c也会改变a
-  Numpy arrays can be indexed with slices, but also with boolean or integer arrays (masks). This method is called fancy indexing. It creates copies not views.
-  Array multiplication(a*b) is not matrix multiplication(a.dot(b))
-  Array-wise comparisons: np.array_equal,数组整体是否相等
-  Logical operations: np.logical_or, np.logical_and
-  a = a[:, np.newaxis] # adds a new axis -> 2D array
-  Indexing with the np.newaxis object allows us to add an axis to an array
-  Flattening: a.ravel()
-  Dimension shuffling: a.transpose
-  np.argsort: Returns the indices that would sort an array
-  Navigating the filesystem with IPython: pwd(show current directory),cd 和ls 类似于Linux命令
-  import seaborn as sns 可以导入seaborn库优化matplotlib
-  np.unique 返回排过序的唯一值
-  pandas中 stack: this “rotates” or pivots from the columns in the data to the rows.unstack: this pivots from the rows into the columns
-  numpy中.I操作符实现了矩阵求逆的运算
-  numpy中eye(4)创建4x4的单位矩阵
-  numpy  tile(A, reps)：Construct an array by repeating A the number of times given by reps
-  Another  problem  is  underflow:  doing  too  many  multiplications  of  small  numbers. When we go to calculate the product p(w0|ci)p(w1|ci)p(w2|ci)...p(wN|ci)and many of these numbers are very small, we’ll get underflow, or an incorrect answer. (Try to multiply many small numbers in Python. Eventually it rounds off to 0.) One solution to  this  is  to  take  the  natural  logarithm  of  this  product.  If  you  recall  from  algebra,ln(a*b) = ln(a)+ln(b).  Doing  this  allows  us  to  avoid  the  underflow  or  round-off
error problem
