---
layout: post
title: "小王子"       # Title of the post
subtitle:
date:       2016-11-19 12:00:00
author:     "随机漫步的傻瓜"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags:
    - 读书笔记
---

# 小王子

- 比如说，你下午4点钟来，那么从3点钟起，我就开始有了幸福感。时间越临近，我就越感到幸福。到了4点钟，我就会激动起来，坐立不安；就会发现幸福是有代价的
- 后来，当他终于能够接受这个事实的时候，他对路易斯说：“我是男孩，而你是女人。
- But I was too young to know how to love her..
- the flower said to him. "It is my fault that you have not known it all the while. That is of no importance. But you-you have been just as foolish as I. Try to be happy... let the glass globe be. I don't want it any more. "
- What are you doing there?" he said to the tippler, whom he found settled down in silence before a collection of empty bottles and also a collection of full bottles.
- "I am drinking. " replied the tippler, with a lugubrious air.
- "Why are you drinking?" demanded the little prince.
- "So that I may forget. " replied the tippler.
- "Forget what?" inquired the little prince, who already was sorry for him.
- "Forget that I am ashamed. " the tippler confessed, hanging his head.
- "Ashamed of what?" insisted the little prince, who wanted to help him.
- "Ashamed of drinking!" The tippler brought his speech to an end, and shut himself up in an impregnable silence.
- "And what good does it do you to own the stars?"
- "It does me the good of making me rich. "
- "And what good does it do you to be rich?"
- "It makes it possible for me to buy more stars, if any are ever discovered. "
- is also lonely among men
- me, you are still nothing more than a little boy who is just like a hundred thousand other little boys. And I have no need of you. And you, on your part, have no need of me. To you, I am nothing more than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you tame me, then we shall need each
- other. To me, you will be unique in all the world. To you, I shall be unique in all the world...
- One only understands the things that one tames, " said the fox. "Men have no more time to understand anything. They buy things all ready made at the shops. But there is no shop anywhere where one can buy friendship, and so men have no friends any more. If you want a friend, tame me... "
- It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye
- No one is ever satisfied where he is
- They are pursuing nothing at all,
- time soothes all sorrows
